Now finally before we leave that module, there's one thing we can optimize now because there is one thing
which I did in a way that is ok to do that will work but that is not recommended doing and that we can
do better.
Whenever we pass a dynamic value to our GraphQL queries as we are for example doing it here where
I do have a page, we currently do use the interpolation syntax here where I use this dollar sign curly brace
thing to inject or interpolate a value into my string literal.
Now this absolutely does work
but this is indeed not the recommended way of adding variables into our GraphQL query,
there is a better way.
Maybe you also remember that for mutations, we had to add mutation here but for queries, we didn't have
to add query here
and indeed if you would have added a query like this, we would have gotten an error.
Well now I will add it because now I will also add something else,
I'll give this query a name, a name that does not really make a difference, it does not make it behave
differently, it will help in error messages for example
but that name then also allows us to do something else.
So here we are of course getting all posts, so here I'll name this fetch posts and you can give this any
name you want,
so this here is totally up to you.
Now with this name assigned, I can add parentheses after this name to define which variables this query
will use and we create such a variable here with a dollar sign
but then no curly braces
and then the name of the variable you want to use and that name is again up to you,
I'll name it page but you could have named it current page, whatever you want.
This will be of type integer,
so you assign a GraphQL type again here and this is really important to understand,
this is GraphQL syntax here,
this will be parsed on the server,
this is not javascript code that runs in the client.
This will only tell our GraphQL server that we have a query which will use an internal variable.
Now that I'm saying internal, the question of course is where do we use that $page?
Well we use it in the place where we do have a dynamic, a variable value and that would be here where we
currently inject our value.
Now I use my $page here and this name here has to match this name and it has to start with
dollar sign
and now GraphQL knows
ok this part here is dynamic,
it might change and it will be an integer because we're defining this here,
so now the only question is how do we get our page variable here in javascript into our
$page
variable here in GraphQL and for that,
we add a second property to that query object we're creating here.
Thus far I only have the query expression, now after that
I'll add a comma and I'll add a second property
which are my variables and this has to be named variables, just as this here had to be named query.
This now is the query expression and variables
now is an object where we can assign values to the variables we pass into our query here.
So here I have $page, here
it then should be just page without the dollar sign
and then my javascript variable or value, so I could pass one here
to always use the first page or in my case,
I do have that page constant or variable here in javascript now, so this is the value I want to assign
here.
Now I have page two times but the first page refers to the internal variable used in the GraphQL query
and the second page after the colon refers to my javascript variable, just to make this clear.
And now with that let's save this and let's reload our application or first of all let's quickly log
in there because I was logged out
and now here you see I get my post,
now if I add another duck here
and I then add one more item so that we do have pagination going on,
then after reloading, we can indeed see that this works
as before, I can switch between my two pages and I simply have two cups in there.
By the way maybe you notice that we didn't get that next and previous link after we created our item,
our new item and that is something we can fix too but for now let's focus on the variables and there in
our frontend code,
this is how we use variables
and technically it works just as before but this is the more elegant, the better way of using variables
in your GraphQL queries.
So now we can replace that in all our queries,
for example in this mutation. There I also use string interpolation to get my value in there,
better would be to give this a name,
update user status or anything like that
and then define which variable we need in here,
that would be the let's say user status,
again this name is up to you
and then the GraphQL type of that which will be a string.
Then here without the double quotation marks because we define it to be a string,
you add user status like this and then again, you add a second variable to that GraphQL query object
where you add
that variables key where you now assign a value to that variable you defined here
without the dollar sign and then the value you want to store there
and in this case this would be this state status just as before.
Now if I continue, here in the next query where I do edit or create a post, there I also give this a
name,
create new post seems like a fitting name here and there we'll have a couple of variables which is no
problem, we can of course have more than one, we'll have the title which is a string, we'll have the content
which is a string and we'll have the image url which is also a string.
And now just as before, we use these values in here,
so title,
content
and of course also the image url
and now we just need to add that second argument here,
the variables, so that we can store our title and you might remember, this was post data title, then the
content was
post data content and the image url,
well that is our image url variable in javascript or the constant which I am creating here.
Now when we edit a post, update existing post could be a name we assign to that and there we also have
some variables and there we will need our post ID let's say which is an ID,
we then also have our title which is a string,
we then have our content which is a string
and now just as before I'll copy that value because I'll need it in a second but then I'll replace this
here with post ID,
I'll replace the rest in a second too,
let me first of all add my variables below that
and then here, we have that post ID which is the value I just cut out
and then here we have the post data title and the post data content.
So here we use the title, there
we use the dollar sign content not wrapped in double quotation marks and we also have the image url
up there which is also a string,
so we should also of course use the image url here and now we need to assign values to these variables
down there too.
So we have the title which is post data title,
we have the content which is post data content
and we have the image url which is image url.
Always remember, the first part here so the key name in our variables object refers to the variables
we defined here
without the dollar sign,
the second part after the colon,
so the value of our key value pairs here refers to the value we want to pass into that variable.
Time for a little save to just check if that is all working.
So now if we create a new post, another duck because as you can tell by now ducks are lovely
animals, it's still lovely,
if I accept that, then we seem to have an issue here
so that did not work
and the problem we have here can be found when I inspect my GraphQL request which fails. There I get some
errors and
we see that all my variables here of type string expected a type string which is required and that of
course is my mistake here.
We should add an exclamation mark here because if we have a look at our backend and our schema here and we have
a look at our mutations there,
then we can see that create user has user input data and create post has post input data and that is
what we working on and that input data,
the post input data indeed does require all these strings.
The page previously was optional,
there we had no exclamation mark which is why I did get no such error before.
For the status by the way, we would also get an error because the status as you can tell also has a required
string and that is really important and therefore good that this slipped through. The types you assign
in your frontend for your variables have to match the types in your backend schema.
So here for example in create new post, all my strings here are required and for update existing post,
well there for update post,
we also have the same type of data and a required ID, so we should make sure that we add that exclamation
mark after all these values here because they are required in our schema,
they have to be required in our frontend too.
So let's add this
also on update status.
So after this change, let me go back,
let's try this again with another duck,
entering some dummy value here and now this is looking better.
Now let me edit this by removing the exclamation mark
and there I still get an error, image url was not provided.
Let me quickly have a look at what's wrong there,
if we go to our update existing post, I do have my image
url here and on the backend in update post, I also do require it there but indeed the problem I have
here is that the image url is not always set when we don't choose a new image, right. And you might remember
that indeed on our backend, we have a check in update post where we see if that is undefined as a text,
so I should at least pass that text in to go through that check.
So what I'll do is if my image url cannot be set here, I'll set it to a string undefined which is not
the same as the default value, of the type undefined
and with that, if we now reload and I tried it again,
now that works because now we're setting this to a value we are checking for in the backend for the
use case that we don't have a new image
and then we'll keep the old image here.
With that back in the frontend, this is taking good shape, the other queries in feed.js are all right.
In the single post.js
file there though, here
I also have a query where I inject a value when I get a single post, so here I'll give this a name by
adding query and the name, fetch single post
and there, I expect to have a post ID which will be of type ID and that is required because that is required
in our backend schema, here in our post query we do require that ID and then here, I can also assign
that here
and as you learn add a second element to that GraphQL query object. The variables property where
I then set post ID equal to post ID, so to this post ID which I'm extracting here. And now with that if I save
this and I go back and click view, this still works without issues.
Now with that, let's also go to app.js in our frontend code because there we do sign users up and in
and here, we also inject values into our query.
Now just as before, we should name these queries and use that different approach,
so here I'll name that user login
and I do get an e-mail which is of type string and which is required
and I do get my password which is of type string and required.
And then here where I have auth data email and auth data password, I can use e-mail,
so $email and $password and we add that new variables object here as a property
to the GraphQL query and that email will be auth
data email and password will be auth
data password
just as before but now with that more elegant syntax.
And last but not least when we sign up, so when we create new users, then I'll also give this mutation
a name, create new user, whatever you want
and here, again I expect a couple of values.
I expect an email which is a string and which is required, I expect a name which is a string and which
is required and you can always check your backend schema to learn what is required and what is not
and here our user input data is what we have to pass to the backend.
So last but not least here
I also have my password which is a required string and then I'll just quickly copy that because now
I will replace these values with my GraphQL variable equivalence,
so $email, $name and of course here, $password
and then again add that variables object and pass email which is auth data
sign up form email value, pass the name which is auth data
sign up form name value and pass the password which is auth data
sign up form password value just as before.
And with that, we should have replaced all injected values in our application with new values.
Now let me quickly sign up with a new user here,
now let me also quickly login with that user and that also works
and with that, we got everything in place.
I can't delete that obviously because I'm not the user who created it,
I would have to login with the correct user for that.
So with that, everything is working the way it should
and now we have a GraphQL API that uses that new variable syntax which is the recommended way of passing
dynamic values into your queries.